$Id: TS5,v 1.1.1.1 2006/03/08 23:28:05 malign Exp $

  Overview of the TS5 system
  Lee H <lee@leeh.co.uk>

For the purposes of this document, ircd versions:
  hybrid6.0
  ircd-comstud-1.12
  CSr31pl4

and prior, are TS3.

Ignite and Hybrid 6.1 are TS5.

The difference between TS5 and TS3 is what happened on opless channels.  TS
works by establishing which server has the oldest version of the channel,
the version that is oldest, keeps its modes and ops, the version that is
youngest, removes their modes and ops, and accepts the older version.

There was an exception to this rule with opless channels, if a channel was
opless, TS3 would allow anybody to keep their ops and modes on the channel.
TS5 aims to stop this, by removing this exception.

Example1: 

An irc network, with server A (every server is ts3)

UserA is on ServerA, in channel #broken.  This channel is opless, and has a
TS of 800000000.  ServerA splits, and whilst it is split, UserA cycles
channel #broken, recreates the channel and is given ops.  On ServerA #broken
now has a TS of 900000000 and has ops.  ServerA rejoins with the network,
via HubB.  HubB realises #broken is opless, so allows UserA to retain ops.
The TS is moved forward to 900000000.

The network now sees #broken as having a TS of 900000000, with UserA being
opped.

Example2:

An irc network, with server C (every server is ts5)

Same scenario as above.  ServerC splits and UserC cycles channel #broken,
recreating it with a TS of 900000000.  ServerC rejoins with the network via
HubD.  HubD realises #broken has a TS of 800000000 locally, and ServerC is
showing a TS of 900000000, it ignores ServerC's modes and ops.  The channel
remains opless.  ServerC receives HubD's modes, and it notices HubD has a
lower TS of channel #broken.  It removes UserC's ops, removes the channel
modes on #broken, and accepts HubD's status.

The network version of #broken hasn't changed.  It is still opless, with a TS
of 800000000.


As you can see, TS5 makes splitting a server to regain ops useless, as it
cannot be abused to give ops after a netsplit.

The problem with TS5 however, is what happens on a mixed TS5/TS3 network.
Channels where the older TS has ops will behave the same way on TS5 and TS3,
however an opless channel will behave differently, as you can see above.

The result of TS5/TS3 mixed can be a desync:

Example1:

As per Example1 above, except the rest of the network is TS5, ServerA is
TS3.  ServerA would keep its modes and ops, whilst the rest of the network
would remove them.  This means only ServerA would see UserA as opped.  The
desync can be abused, as UserA can send modes.  Hybrid6.0 servers will
accept these modes from the unopped client, so if UserA ops UserB, who then
ops UserA, the channel will be the same across all Hybrid6.0 and Hybrid6.1
servers.

Example2:

As per Example2 above, except the rest of the network is TS3.  ServerC is
TS5.  ServerC would remove its modes and ops, therefore UserC would not be
opped on ServerC, therefore it could not send any mode changes to the
channel.  Although it is opped elsewhere, it isn't opped locally, so the
desync cannot be abused.

As you can see, the desync's that can occur can either be resynced, or are
useless to the user, so a mixed TS5/TS3 network is not a huge problem,
although a desync is NOT a good thing to have.

We have jumped to TS5 from TS3, because there was a version of ircd that was
TS4, so it was thought better to avoid a clash with an existing version.

The ircd-hybrid team recommend TS5 is enabled on your network, if the full
network is upgrading to TS5 versions, then the desync problem will be short
lived, as once a full network has upgraded, there will be no desync.

EOF
